Overview: Treasure of the High Seas is a resource management card game. If you can effectively manage your resources you can progress through a quest line and win the game! If not, you will end up down a losing path.

Start of game: You start the game with eight resource tokens: 2x Crew, 2x Landlubbers, 2x Food and 2x Doubloons. The resources represent what you have access to throughout your voyage. The rest of the resource cards should be placed separately within reach as they act as a bank. Prepare the main deck by taking ten random normal cards and shuffling them along with both part 1s of the quests (‘Rumours of an Island’ and ‘A Sense of Porpoise’). Place the shuffled deck face down. Place the three special cards nearby. The spare normal cards will not be used this game, so can be put away.

Order of play: On each turn, take the top card of the deck and place it face up in front of you. Then pick one of the three paths. On each card the possible costs are displayed in the middle row and the reward for each respective cost is shown below it in the bottom row. You have to choose a valid path on each card, trying to judge the best path to allow you to continue progressing through the deck and advancing through a quest line towards victory. If you run out of some resources you may not be able to choose some paths, but there will always be at least one path open to you, however unpalatable. Once you have picked a ath, pay the cost, e.g. pay 1x Food and 1x Crew to the bank if the cost is FC, then gain any rewards from the bank. Maps are incredibly valuable, and can be substituted for the basic resources (Crew, Landlubbers, Food, Doubloons). Infamy can be gained and lost during the game, and some cards may require Infamy  for some paths. Most cards are simply discarded once they are played, but special and quest cards may have extra text to explain if they are to be discarded, put to one side, or swapped for other cards. When the deck is empty, shuffle the discard pile to create the new deck for the next round. Continue going until you either follow a path to win or lose the game.

Special rules: You can hold up to 15 resources without penalty. If you end your turn with over 15 resources, then you place the ‘Mutiny’ special card on the top of the deck and resolve it the following turn. If you have more than four Infamy at the end of your turn, and have not already placed Mutiny at the top of the deck, toss a coin: heads means that the Navy is after you, and you place the ‘Navy Raid’ special card on the top of the deck to be resolved the following turn; tails means you have evaded the Navy for now. This coin toss will happen after every turn the condition is met. If you run out of food, i.e. have zero Food at the end of your turn, and have not already placed ‘Mutiny’ or ‘Navy Raid’ at the top of the deck, you must place the ‘Ravenous Crew’ special card at the top of the deck and resolve it the following turn.
If a card requires you to roll a die or toss a coin to determine a reward this should be done before the choice is made. This means that whenever a decision over a card is taken the player has complete information on that card before paying any required costs, but may not be able to take every path due to a lack of resources, or bad luck on the roll of a die or toss of a coin.

Keywords: Exile - some cards are not immediately discarded, so live in a different part of the play area, which I have designated the exile zone in this game. Exiled cards can be recalled into the game, so they are not permanently removed, it is simply to provide a distinction between putting a card in the discard pile, returning it to the deck, or placing it elsewhere.
Scry - Scrying is a form of seeing or knowledge of the future. To scry n cards you take the top n cards of the deck (or all the remaining cards if fewer than n) and replace them at the top or bottom of the deck in any order. For example, if you scry 2 then you can place them both on top in any order, both on the bottom in any order, or one on top and one on the bottom. This allows you some knowledge and some control over the next cards you will face.

Good luck finding all the Treasures of the High Seas!
